# On the Path To Proper Allocation: The Emergency Fund

For investors who are beginning their investing journey, the emergency fund is the place to start. The emergency fund is a liquid account - cash or cash-like - that is used to defend against any unexpected, unforeseen expenses that might arise. Some example use cases for the emergency fund include being layed off from a job, a debilitating illness, a dental examination gone awry, a broken a/c unit in your home, a global pandemic(!), or any in a multitude of other possible reasons.

An emergency fund might take the form of a savings or checking account, a money market account, a short term certificate of deposit (CD), bills stuffed under the mattress, etc. The distinction here, for me, is that the account should be separate from the main checking account used for incoming and outgoing payments - bills and such. I will attempt to explain why I think this way in a later paragraph.

In regards to size, a general rule of thumb is the emergency fund should supply between three to six months of the investor's living expenses. Of course, this can range wildly from individual to individual, and depends upon lifestyle, personal risk tolerance, and current financial situation - debts, other investments and their varying levels of liquidity (how quickly the investments can be converted to cash arrived in your checking account).

> *Scenario: An investor has a completely liquid (cash) savings account holding one month's worth of expenses and an additional five month's worth of expenses in a high yield money market account, "high yield" meaning at or close to inflation rates (laughably low). The five months worth of expenses in the money market account may take 10 business days to transfer via the ACH system to the checking account where it is needed, but this is ok because at least one month of expenses is covered in the savings account, which can be transferred at the click of a button. In this way, safeguarding measures are still likely in place without completely sacrificing yield.*

# *The Tradeoff*
An investor's mindset should be to chase the highest reward to risk ratio available. This is sometimes referred to as chasing yields - but the emergency fund offers a negligible yield! In fact, most investors would consider an emergency fund a net loss in terms of yield, since cash accounts lose value to inflation, in 2021 at least!

For the up and coming investor, the reward for building out an emergency fund, this first piece of the portfolio jigsaw, is peace of mind. From a behavioral perspective, having funds for unexpected life events allows the investor to take these events in stride.  Often, the event itself is highly stressful and/or emotional.  Were it not for the emergency fund, the investor finds themself against the wall, having to consider between high interest debt options - such as credit cards and unsecured loans, or is forced to reach out to friends and family, which, while the terms of such a loan might not have significant financial cost, burdens the investor with a high social cost.  Neither of these options are good options! However, having no other option to choose from, the investor accepts the terms of this bad debt and prolongs their journey to financial freedom. Fighting off debt is an uphill battle!

The cost of this peace of mind comes at the loss of yield for the value of the emergency fund holdings.

> *Scenario: An investor spends $2,000/month and wants to have 6 months of savings in cash. This comes to $12,000 availablein their checking account at any given moment. Consider that the expectation for yields on the checking account is 0%. Alternatively, the yield expectation for a given index fund is 10% per year. At the end of one year, the value of the emergency fund remains $12,000. In the hypothetical scenario where the money is parked in a diversified index fund and the index fund yielded exactly as expected, the cash value of the fund is now $13,200 - a difference of $1,200. This means that the investor should feel, at worst, indifferent to the idea of "paying" $1,200 for peace of mind.*

For most investors - who are averse to risk of losing everything they own because of an unlucky event - choosing to have an emergency fund should be a trivial decision.

# *Will the Emergency Fund Change Over Time?*
Of course! When starting out, I recommend building out an emergency fund first because it separates the investor from extreme loss - going broke type scenarios. Over time, once an investor has sufficiently built out their initial emergency fund, lifestyle changes occur, brokerage accounts are opened and slightly less liquid assets are purchased, and living costs become more predictable, of course the emergency fund will change. The emergency fund is part of a greater system subject to inflows and outflows - which hardly stay the same. What we are looking for here is some certainty, and having reserves provides that.

> *Scenario - Part 1: An investor has recently been promoted to a new management position in which they make $6,000 more per year than their previous position. The investor craves a stable living situation - and rather than dumping this new salary increase against their student loan balance, they decide to open a second checking account with their local bank branch. Each month, the additional $500 is put away into savings. After diligently reviewing their credit card statements for the past six months, the investor determines that their monthly spending ranges around $1500/month.  This includes their rent payment, student loan payment, streaming subscriptions, utilities, and a food budget. With each cashed paycheck, the investor automatically withdraws $500 to the second checking account, which they have named "EF". After three months, the investor has been able to keep to their budget as it was before the promotion, with no unexpected costs. In the fourth month, a broken arm puts the investor out $1,000 for x-rays and an elbow reduction. This puts the investor back to $500, which is discouraging, but the investor prefers this to debt. Continiuing on, the investor works for ten more months without a hiccup.  They now have three months of living expenses covered - a tough slog, but they made it! A second promotion comes with another $6,000 raise, and desiring to put money to work, the investor opens a brokerage account - now investing $750/month - $250/month they keep for themselves, as a "treat yo self". The investor expects the money being invested to provide a ten percent return, or $75 a year. The investor's mindset has now begun to switch to chasing yields - "Can I make my money return my living costs?"*

How might savings goals change over time?

> *Scenario - Part 2: The same investor from above is now older and wiser - five years have passed, and a lot has changed! The investor has continued up the corporate ladder. Pay has gone up, and so has lifestyle - but not by as much as pay. The investor is now making $3000/month on top of their living costs. They choose to invest $2000/month into index funds, still netting a return of ten percent per year (it has been an incredibly bull market). Living costs to the investor are now $2,000/month. This means the EF should have about $6,000. The investor, being fairly comfortable with their portfolio, knows they can sell some of their index fund position if they were really in a pinch. These funds could hit their checking account in as few as 5 business days. This is reasonable enough to the investor that they decide they no longer need to keep three months of savings in their emergency fund. They could do with just two. They keep $4,000 in their second checking account "EF" and now the brokerage account acts as a secondary, precautionary option. In this way, investing becomes a positive feedback loop, providing more opportunity to take advantage of larger reward to risk scenarios because the odds of a bankruptcy-type event become less and less likely. The investor increases their monthly student loan payment by $1,000 - feeling in control of their financial situation.*

Finally, a list of my personal opinions:

- The emergency fund should consist of three to six months of living expenses.  Review credit and debit card history to get an idea of what these costs might look like. I would start at six months, and slowly transfer money into alternative investments as you become more familiar with them.
- The emergency fund should be separate from your main checking account. Why? Because transferring money becomes a small barrier to entry in your mental accounting. I am less likely to spend money I have dedicated to emergencies than money I have stashed away in my day to day checking account used for "expenses". Having a checking account flush with cash leads me to believe I can afford a PS5 A LOT more easily than if I have to tell myself that money is coming out of my funds for emergencies. These types of checks sound subtle but make a huge difference!
- Building up your emergency fund should go hand in hand with attempting to establish a budget around your lifestyle costs. Personal finance is composed of inflows (from labor and capital) and outflows (spending). Both are important for regulating your system successfully!
- Being broke is intuitively bad, so having an emergency fund is, for the most part, common sense. What is probably not as clear is what the savings goal should be and how proactive the investor should be to attain that goal. For me, it is absolutely crucial to build the emergency fund as quickly as possible, saving within reason of course. If you have not started an emergency fund, are working consistent hours, and at least breaking even on your financial obligations, start building your EF NOW!


