# YourAverageDigitalExistentialChautauqua

## What is a Chautauqua?
As I understand it, the chautauqua originated as a form of educational entertainment to the masses. A preacher, artist, educator, or troop might tour from town to town to share their stories in exchange for a place to stay and maybe a meal or two. On their journey, they might expect to traverse a multitude of terrains from the Mississippi to Oregon - the wild West.  I can't help but imagine that, not only did these chautauquans give the road a bit of wear, to greater effect, the road must have given them some wear as well! I believe the chautauqua is a form of storytelling. Storytelling is how we make sense of the world, and through it we get a bit of that rugged dirt between our toes which transfigures up our spine.

The internet is the unsettled West of today.  It is the source of - for all intents and purposes - an infinite wealth of information (from an optimist's perspective). It is the stage for frictionless, high-velocity collisions of ideas competing for crowded space in the collective mind (from the pessimist's perspective). We have made advancements in the transmission of ideas from speech to parchment to silicon. When culture and technology and society are being edited at such speed as they are today, it becomes difficult (for myself at least) to evaluate what is true and what is not. I need a calm, quiet respite to do that kind of mental work.

So here it is. My digital chautauqua, a little slice of the internet - irrefutable evidence of my shaping stories and stories shaping me. Welcome! I hope to be expressionistic *and* intellectual here. I would like to share ideas that I think are of high quality - certainly not academic, or even scientific (although I will do my best to ensure my opinions are evidence-based) and to share my creative pursuits, knowledge, and life in an honest way.  View the chautauqua in its [*pristine* state](https://cajohnst.github.io/) here, or see my [works in progress](https://github.com/cajohnst/YourAverageDigitalExistentialChautauqua) along with the entire [history](https://github.com/cajohnst/YourAverageDigitalExistentialChautauqua) of the project here. [Contribute](https://github.com/cajohnst/YourAverageDigitalExistentialChautauqua) if you dare (as simple as a pull request!), we chautauquans accept whatever suits your fancy. Welcome again, and I hope you can take something meaningful home with you.

*Cheers,*

*C*
