# blurbs

March - July, 2019


JBW III

Jimmy is someone who, just by walking into a room, can warm you up and make you
smile. What I admire most about 25 year old Jimbo though, is his growth. He was
once a man known to carry a road beer (Or 2) in his back pocket. Just last
weekend, I marveled as he pulled a philosophic novel by Sartre out of that same
pocket for some on the go reading. He is the inspiration at times for me to
continue on a learning path, and for that I am grateful.

KJ

Kevin is a mentor, and I’m not sure why he puts up with my annoying coding
questions all the time. What I admire most is how he always makes himself
available, always frees up time, and goes out of his way to be a resource when
I have nothing to offer in return. Thanks Kev.

RC

Rusty is the type of person who makes you wonder why you deserve such a good
friend. That’s it. That’s the blurb.

ADA & MBA

Andrew and Michelle- it is a rarity to find these two apart, but you do what
you must for picture congruency. They are my inspiration to work hard when I
don’t feel like working hard. What I admire most is their ambition to not only
better themselves, but better the lives of others through their work. Also,
their ability to create a jingle for any scenario. It’s a gift!

TCB

Tom is my dude and my guy, an A+ mate. He chills the hardest. He is also the
funniest person I know. When he isn’t providing you with deep belly laughs, he
is listening to you meander on about your day -really listening. And he cares.
He is constantly considering the needs of others before his own. I don’t know
how I would’ve gotten by in Durham this long without him.

RS

Rupali and I have a shared love for writing, poetry and, of course, Harry
Potter. Writing, to me, is almost a sacred act. So thank you for proof reading
most everything I’ve written. It means more than you know! Mischief managed.

ZB

Zack is passionate about everything he does and has been that way since I’ve
known him. He doesn’t shy away from a deep conversation. Nothing is
sugar-coated. This is probably what I admire most about him: his drive, his
entrepreneurial spirit to tackle any issue head on. One might call it.. a mamba
mentality? Why yes, yes they would.

HRG

Holland is a creator, director, writer, producer, roommate, and old friend. The
unique thing about old friends is how they can communicate without words,
finish each other’s jokes before they’ve been made, and inspire each other’s
growth. We’ve come a long way in Apt. 9, I think we just might make it after
all. Cheers brother!

VD

Vir is a pragmatist, and also (probably still) the fastest person I’ve ever
seen. He is, to me, the embodiment of a team player. Beyond that, he is always
looking to the needs of the group before his own. He’s an all-around great m8
that you NEED to know.
